Hello everyone, so my name is Noel and I'm here to talk about Moodle.
Moodle is a learning management system that you can use for your online
learning and teaching and our mission is to empower educators to improve the
world. We want to do this in an accessible way that can be used for
everyone and that can be customized for every use case. We do this through
open source and actually Moodle started more than 20 years ago and the first
commit was actually the same year as the first edition of Forstdom and
preparing this talk I have been looking at the archives and this is actually the
first talk about Moodle. It had been mentioned here and there but this is the
the first talk specific about Moodle so it may be the first time some of you
okay
it may be the first time some of you hear about it so I hope you find it useful
we are a certified B corporation and Moodle is a registered digital public
good and in case you don't know who is using Moodle at the moment more than
400 million users translated to more than 160 languages mostly contributed by
the community the translations and you can find these stats in stats.moodle.org
but I have to mention that since Moodle is open source and can be self-hosted all
this information is only obtained so in reality there's probably more people
using Moodle than this. In this slide maybe there are some logos you
recognize we know that Moodle is used by more than 60% of higher education
institutions it's also used by many education ministries and it's also used
by many governments and NGOs so Moodle is used all around and who is making
Moodle. Well there are some important part of the contribution from the open
source community and other companies but mostly it is done by Moodle HQ which is
the company I work for. We are currently more than 200 team members
distributed in more than 20 countries and we speak more than 26 languages and I
didn't want to leave them without mentioning the text tag so Moodle is
made with Vanilla, PHP and Vanilla JavaScript with an SQL database and the
mobile application which is the team I actually work for is made with Ionic
using Angular so in case you want to learn more you can look in the ad
repositories to look at the code. Also I mentioned that it's very customizable to
different use cases so you can build plugins for Moodle and if there is
something that is not doing already there is likely a plugin already working
for that and if there isn't you can make a plugin yourself. Here you can read the
developer documentation to see how to build it both for the LMS and for the
Moodle app and finally even though the Moodle LMS is at the core of everything
that we do there is also many other things. For example I already mentioned
the Moodle app which is interesting for low resource environments because you
can use it to use offline so you can download the contents and fill the
exercises and everything and it synchronizes when you go back online. We also
have Moodle Cloud so you can self-host Moodle but if you want to get started
we have a software as a service solution which is Moodle Cloud. We also
have MoodleNet and Moodle Academy to share and find learning resources and
if you want to integrate Moodle with your organization we have Moodle
Workplace and Moodle Certified Partners and service providers so there is a
lot more that you can dig in if you want to learn more. So that's it you can
learn more at Moodle.com and if you need to contact me my mail is noel at Moodle.com
and that's it. Thank you.